Step-by-Step Guide: Installing and Running Kafka with KRaft Mode on Windows 10
Step 1: Download Kafka
	1. Go to the Apache Kafka downloads page.
	2. Download the latest binary version.
	3. Extract the downloaded Kafka archive to a desired directory.
Step 2: Set Environment Variables (Optional)
	1. Add the bin directory of Kafka to the system's PATH variable for easier command access.
Step 3: Generate a UUID for Kafka Cluster
	1. Open a Command Prompt.
	2. Run the following command to generate a unique cluster ID: 
kafka-storage.bat random-uuid

Note down the UUID generated.
Step 4: Set the UUID as a Variable
	1. Use the following command to set the UUID to an environment variable: 
set KAFKA_CLUSTER_ID={use the uuid generated above}
Step 5: Format Kafka Log Directories
	1. Run the following command to format the log directories using the generated cluster ID: 
kafka-storage.bat format -t %KAFKA_CLUSTER_ID% -c ../../config/kraft/server.properties
Step 6: Start the Kafka Server
	1. Start the Kafka server by running: 
kafka-server-start.bat ../../config/kraft/server.properties
Step 7: Create a Kafka Topic
	1. Open a new Command Prompt.
	2. Create a new topic named first-kraft-topic by running: 
kafka-topics.bat --create --topic first-kraft-topic --bootstrap-server localhost:9092
Step 8: Produce Messages to the Topic
	1. Use the following command to produce messages to the topic: 
kafka-console-producer.bat --topic first-kraft-topic --bootstrap-server localhost:9092
	2. Type messages and press Enter. Each message will be sent to the topic.
Step 9: Consume Messages from the Topic
	1. Use the following command to consume messages from the topic: 
kafka-console-consumer.bat --topic first-kraft-topic --from-beginning --bootstrap-server localhost:9092
	2. You will see all messages from the topic displayed.
Additional Notes
	• Ensure that no other services are running on port 9092 to avoid conflicts.
	• Use separate Command Prompt windows for the producer, consumer, and server to keep them running simultaneously.
By following these steps, you will have Kafka running in KRaft mode on Windows 10 successfully.
